Brother Van Elberg was a young Dutch man raced during the post-World War I era who enjoyed life like all young men his age.
He loved playing chess and following the latest football results and was the proud father of two children, his daughter Henny and his son Fitz.
Together with his wife Liz, he created a cozy home for them which was located in the Azalia Strad in the city of Swaller in the Netherlands.
My parents had the habit to study together on Saturday evening and I had to read the first two paragraphs and I also had to answer the questions.
Well, this stayed with me for the rest of my life.
Herman loved sharing the Bible's message of a peaceful future with his fellow citizens of Swaller.
Showing that today will come when nations no longer will go to war against each other.
However, things were about to change.
In 1939, neighbouring Germany started World War II.
Because the Nazis were set on exterminating Jehovah's Witnesses, many of them had to flee the country.
Moved by unselfish love, Herman opened his home to offer them shelter.
One day my father said to my mother,
Liz, I received a letter from the society.
A brother is coming to stay with us.
My mother said, oh Herman, this can't go on like that.
We won't be able to feed all of them to which my father replied.
But Liz, I'm a butcher. There will be enough meat for all.
On May 10, 1940, Germany invaded the Netherlands.
Now, Herman and his family were also at risk of falling prey to the Nazi regime.
Among their neighbours was a family that was very active in pro-German politics during the war.
Another man was responsible for the arrest of a significant number of Jews.
And between these two lived off an Albert family.
Eventually, Herman was betrayed to the police and was arrested.
His arrestors were determined to get information concerning the people he was helping.
The police resorted to violence beating him severely.
Due to his love for his fellow Christians and his love for God, Herman Kaptis Lips sealed.
Mr. von Elberg never revealed any names during the war that meant signing your own death warrant.
Not knowing what had happened to your husband, Lips von Elberg went to the local police station.
But while she was away, the authorities raided their home.
Suddenly, the door flung open and two men entered the room and started moving things around.
They pushed the table to one side, pulled up the carpet and started looking under the floor.
They found all the literature we had hidden, as well as closing of brothers, which my father had hidden in the cavity wall.
The authorities confiscated the literature Herman had hidden in his home.
The literature found that his place wasn't his, but that of his congregation.
But he never mentioned the names of those who had brought it.
That, to me, makes this very special.
Unwilling to waver in their determination to protect their fellow believers,
Herman and Lips von Elberg were both imprisoned.
Together with my grandfather, I visited my mother.
We had to walk across the huge courtyard.
While we were walking, I suddenly hear Hennie.
And there was my father, and he gave me an apple.
That's the last I ever saw of my father.
Eventually, Herman and Lips were sent to concentration camps.
Herman was sent to Dachau.
Lips was transferred to the Ravensburg concentration camp.
While she returned home after a while, Herman von Elberg did not.
He died on February 17, 1943, at the age of 30,
leaving behind his bereaved wife and two children.
Of course, the witnesses as a whole were deeply impacted by the war.
What really strikes me is that they never considered themselves heroes.
Herman was one of at least 132 Jehovah's Witnesses in the Netherlands,
who died at the hands of the Nazi regime for their belief in a better world under the Kingdom of God.
All they had to do to be freed was to renounce their faith,
or as in the case of Herman von Elberg,
simply provide names of fellow believers.
To love your brothers more than you love yourself,
that really meant something to him.
Down to this very day, I pray every day that I may be just like them.